# 5.6.2. Persistent Changes: semanage fcontext Red Hat Enterprise Linux 6 | Red Hat Customer Portal
The `semanage fcontext` command is used to change the SELinux context of files. When using targeted policy, changes are written to files located in the `/etc/selinux/targeted/contexts/files/` directory:

-   The `file_contexts` file specifies default contexts for many files, as well as contexts updated via `semanage fcontext`.
-   The `file_contexts.local` file stores contexts to newly created files and directories not found in `file_contexts`.

Two utilities read these files. The `setfiles` utility is used when a file system is relabeled and the `restorecon` utility restores the default SELinux contexts. This means that changes made by `semanage fcontext` are persistent, even if the file system is relabeled. SELinux policy controls whether users are able to modify the SELinux context for any given file.

### Quick Reference

To make SELinux context changes that survive a file system relabel:

1.  Run the `semanage fcontext -a _options_ _file-name_|_directory-name_` command, remembering to use the full path to the file or directory.
2.  Run the `restorecon -v _file-name_|_directory-name_` command to apply the context changes.

**Procedure 5.7. Changing a File's or Directory's Type**

The following example demonstrates changing a file's type, and no other attributes of the SELinux context. This example works the same for directories, for instance if `file1` was a directory.

1.  As the Linux root user, run the `touch /etc/file1` command to create a new file. By default, newly-created files in the `/etc/` directory are labeled with the `etc_t` type:

    ```
    ~\]# `ls -Z /etc/file1`
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:etc\_t:s0       /etc/file1

    ```

    Use the `ls -dZ _directory_name_` command to list information about a directory.
2.  As the Linux root user, run the `semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t /etc/file1` command to change the `file1` type to `samba_share_t`. The `-a` option adds a new record, and the `-t` option defines a type (`samba_share_t`). Note that running this command does not directly change the type; `file1` is still labeled with the `etc_t` type:

    ```
    ~\]# `semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t /etc/file1`
    ~\]# `ls -Z /etc/file1` 
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:etc\_t:s0       /etc/file1

    ```

    The `semanage fcontext -a -t samba_share_t /etc/file1` command adds the following entry to `/etc/selinux/targeted/contexts/files/file_contexts.local`:

    ```
    /etc/file1    unconfined\_u:object\_r:samba\_share\_t:s0

    ```
3.  As the Linux root user, run the `restorecon -v /etc/file1` command to change the type. Because the `semanage` command added an entry to `file_contexts.local` for `/etc/file1`, the `restorecon` command changes the type to `samba_share_t`:

    ```
    ~\]# `restorecon -v /etc/file1`
    restorecon reset /etc/file1 context unconfined\_u:object\_r:etc\_t:s0->system\_u:object\_r:samba\_share\_t:s0

    ```

**Procedure 5.8. Changing a Directory and its Contents Types**

The following example demonstrates creating a new directory, and changing the directory's file type (along with its contents) to a type used by Apache HTTP Server. The configuration in this example is used if you want Apache HTTP Server to use a different document root (instead of `/var/www/html/`):

1.  As the Linux root user, run the `mkdir /web` command to create a new directory, and then the `touch /web/file{1,2,3}` command to create 3 empty files (`file1`, `file2`, and `file3`). The `/web/` directory and files in it are labeled with the `default_t` type:

    ```
    ~\]# `ls -dZ /web`
    drwxr-xr-x  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 /web
    ~\]# `ls -lZ /web` 
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file1
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file2
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file3

    ```
2.  As the Linux root user, run the `semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_content_t "/web(/.*)?"` command to change the type of the `/web/` directory and the files in it, to `httpd_sys_content_t`. The `-a` option adds a new record, and the `-t` option defines a type (httpd_sys_content_t). The `"/web(/.*)?"` regular expression causes the `semanage` command to apply changes to the `/web/` directory, as well as the files in it. Note that running this command does not directly change the type; `/web/` and files in it are still labeled with the `default_t` type:

    ```
    ~\]# `ls -dZ /web`
    drwxr-xr-x  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 /web
    ~\]# `ls -lZ /web` 
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file1
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file2
    -rw-r--r--  root root unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0 file3

    ```

    The `semanage fcontext -a -t httpd_sys_content_t "/web(/.*)?"` command adds the following entry to `/etc/selinux/targeted/contexts/files/file_contexts.local`:

    ```
    /web(/.\*)?    system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0

    ```
3.  As the Linux root user, run the `restorecon -R -v /web` command to change the type of the `/web/` directory, as well as all files in it. The `-R` is for recursive, which means all files and directories under the `/web/` directory are labeled with the `httpd_sys_content_t` type. Since the `semanage` command added an entry to `file.contexts.local` for `/web(/.*)?`, the `restorecon` command changes the types to `httpd_sys_content_t`:

    ```
    ~\]# `restorecon -R -v /web`
    restorecon reset /web context unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0->system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0
    restorecon reset /web/file2 context unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0->system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0
    restorecon reset /web/file3 context unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0->system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0
    restorecon reset /web/file1 context unconfined\_u:object\_r:default\_t:s0->system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0

    ```

    Note that by default, newly-created files and directories inherit the SELinux type of their parent directories.

**Procedure 5.9. Deleting an added Context**

The following example demonstrates adding and removing an SELinux context. If the context is part of a regular expression, for example, `/web(/.*)?`, use quotation marks around the regular expression:

    ~\]# `semanage fcontext -d "/web(/.*)?"`

1.  To remove the context, as the Linux root user, run the `semanage fcontext -d _file-name_|_directory-name_` command, where _file-name_\|_directory-name_ is the first part in `file_contexts.local`. The following is an example of a context in `file_contexts.local`:

    ```
    /test    system\_u:object\_r:httpd\_sys\_content\_t:s0

    ```

    With the first part being `/test`. To prevent the `/test/` directory from being labeled with the `httpd_sys_content_t` after running `restorecon`, or after a file system relabel, run the following command as the Linux root user to delete the context from `file_contexts.local`:

        ~\]# `semanage fcontext -d /test`
2.  As the Linux root user, use the `restorecon` utility to restore the default SELinux context.

Refer to the semanage(8) manual page for further information about `semanage`.

When changing the SELinux context with `semanage fcontext -a`, use the full path to the file or directory to avoid files being mislabeled after a file system relabel, or after the `restorecon` command is run. 
 [https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security-enhanced_linux/sect-security-enhanced_linux-selinux_contexts_labeling_files-persistent_changes_semanage_fcontext](https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/6/html/security-enhanced_linux/sect-security-enhanced_linux-selinux_contexts_labeling_files-persistent_changes_semanage_fcontext)
